Let's move on to the implementation of the recharge logic. In this tutorial, we'll work with animations.
We have two reload animations, one for the rifle and one for the launcher.
Let's create appropriate animated montages for each of them.
We transfer the montages to the player / animations folder.
And by analogy, as we did with the animation of changing weapons, we need to replace the slot name with UpperBody.
First and second animations. Let's create a bind for the animation change key. Go to project settings, to input.
Add action mapping. We name it Reload and I will assign the R key.
We have different launcher and rifle reload animations. The question of where to store the animation
montage for reloading is quite philosophical. For example, we can create a property in the Base Weapon
and specify the animation we need for each class in the corresponding blueprints,
but if we suddenly have an additional character with his own reload animation,
then this approach will not work. It’s even intuitively clear that keeping an animation that refers to a character
in a weapon class is not entirely logical from an object-oriented programming point of view.
Therefore, we will do it a little differently. We will add an additional structure called WeaponData.
And in this structure we will store the weapon class and reload animation that belongs
to this weapon class. Copy our properties with WeaponClasse. Let's add BlueprintReadWrite to the macro as well.
We remove the array, we do not need it here. It will just be WeaponClass.
Create a second property of type UAnimMontage, call it ReloadAnimMontage.
And we will change the property from WeaponClasses to WeaponData, that is, we will have an array of WeaponData structures,
from where we will take all the information we need. In fact, we slightly expanded our
previous version and now we have information not only on classes, but also on reloading animations.
Let's add an additional variable for convenience. This will be the AnimMonrage pointer and it will
point to the current reload animation, that is, when the character changes weapons,
we will also change the pointer to the reload animation. We call it CurrentReloadAnimMontage.
The name is a bit long, but it fully describes the purpose of this pointer.
Go to the weapon component.
Let's tweak the SpawnWeapons function.
It is necessary to replace WeaponClasses with WeaponData.
We also change the name of the loop variable, call it OneWeaponData.
And we refer to WeaponClass as a structure field.
Moving to the EquipWeapon function. First, let's add the check that we were missing. This is a check
for the correctness of the WeaponIndex. It must be greater than 0 or less than the number of array elements.
If at least one of these conditions is not met, we can issue a warning message and exit the function.
Next, after we changed the weapon, we need to change the reload animation. We can index the
structure from our WeaponData array and pick up the reload animation from there. In our case, this will
already work, because we spun the actors by simply walking through the WeaponData array and adding them
to the Weapons array. But no one guarantees that in the future we will not need, for example, sorting
one of these arrays, and in this case we can get an animation of reloading from another
weapon class. Therefore, we can use a more reliable method. It consists in the fact that each
time we will search in the WeaponData array for a structure that corresponds to our current class of weapons
and, having found this structure, we will simply take the reload animation from there. Let's create an additional
local variable, which we will call CurrentWeaponData, which will store a pointer
to the found structure. Let's use an array function called FindByPredicate.
A predicate is a functional object that returns true or false. In turn, a functional
object is an object in which the parenthesis operator is redefined. We'll use a lambda function,
an anonymous function that will be applied to each element in the array. And if the class of the structure,
which is an element of the array, coincides with the class CurrentWeapon, then a pointer to this structure
will be returned to us . If more than one element of the array does not satisfy this condition,
a null pointer will be returned. For those who are not familiar with lambda functions in C ++, I recommend reading about it.
Don't be alarmed by our example. The & sign in brackets means capturing
external variables, that is, we can refer to the CurrentWeapon pointer, and the Data function parameter
has the WeaponData array element type. This function will be applied to each element of the array,
and at the first match, a pointer to the element of the array will be returned to us. Let's add a comment mark to
format the function in two lines. Let's set our CurrentReloadAnimMontage pointer to the animation of
reloading from the found structure, but before that we check if the CurrentWeaponData pointer is not null
and if not nullptr, then we refer to the ReloadAnimMontage field, if it's nullptr, then we assign nullptr to the pointer.
Let's go to the header file. Let's add a recharge function. Let's call it Reload.
Add a body for the function. Let's add for now just playing the animation - PlayAnimMontage
and pass a pointer to the current reload animation to the function.
In the BaseCharacter class, add a new bind for Reload and assign the Reload weapon component function.
Open the character's blueprint. We need to customize our WeaponData array.
Add the first item. Install the WeaponClass of the rifle
and the corresponding animation for reloading the rifle. Add the second element to the array. Install the launcher blueprint
and launcher reload animation. Compile. We launch the project.
Press R - the rifle reload is played, if we change the weapon, the launcher reload animation is played
. That's all in this lesson. In the next, we will continue with the reload logic.